so
in putting this together we realized
that um
i really don't have enough time to get
through all the stuff that happened this
year so
we at the beginning of the year we set
out a pretty uh
you know broad goals of more time on
community initiatives more conferences
more launches more ideas more
collaborators more collaborations
shipping more stuff and more more stuff
and so we spent a lot of time
focused on shipping new products and
it's kind of amazing all the stuff that
we got done so we kind of shipped all
the things this year
we did a bunch of new updates to our
threaddb protocol
and database and i'm going to talk a
little bit about some newer stuff
towards the end here we implemented a
bunch of new access control mechanisms
for developers who are looking to
leverage web
3 technologies with web 2 access control
constraints
we launched a new mailbox api that is
really making it a lot easier for people
to do things like share invites between
threads but also share invites between
different
web3 protocols in order to sort of tie a
lot of different
tooling and and tools together we we
launched our buckets um
apis i'm going to talk a little bit more
about that we launched a bunch of stuff
around filecoin
um we launched some new community
initiatives and
um all the all the things so
speaking of launching products um we put
a bunch of effort into
our textiles textile buckets api so
for anyone who's not already familiar
with things that textile
does we build a lot of developer tooling
on top of the
ipfs ecosystem in general and our
specifically and the web3 community
and tooling more broadly so textile
buckets is a file and dynamic directory
storage that's built on top of threaddb
which is our dynamic thread event
sourcing layer
it and it ties together a bunch of
textile tooling like
our powergate api which i'm going to
talk about in a second
and then standard ipfs things like unix
ff unix fs and dagdb and all
are dag structures so that you can share
data on ipfs
in a really clean way it publishes all
this over everything you can think of
including http
ipfs slip p2p ipns and all the things
um and it's really easy so that's the
that's that's the name of the game here
when we're talking about stuff
of course 2020 was the year of filecoin
for us and a lot of other teams
and so we uh shipped a very exciting new
product we call
powergate uh which is a multi-tiered
storage api
and it's built to to to leverage any of
that gap between ipfs and filecoin
um it lets you um you know build indexes
for file coin data it lets you
push data to and from file coin for
retrieval and for storage
it's designed to be used by other teams
it's designed to be used by pinning
services
which is going to be a big thing in 2021
i think um and it's
it's really designed for teams building
services on top of
file coin the coolest thing of course is
it's pretty easy to use
so if you even are just sort of file
coin curious i recommend you take a look
at
powergate and start playing around there
a little bit
um all of our tools now
um and continue to be supported by
across a number of different languages
so if you're building a golang
app you're building something in
javascript you're building with python
we have community contributes who built
um api wrappers and connectors in all
these different languages and
everything's available over grpc so
even if you've got a language there
you're not that's not covered already
you can jump in and and start building
stuff pretty quick um
we've done a lot of focus this year on
community outreach
in fact we set a goal of our for
ourselves to actually contribute
directly to
external projects as much as possible um
one of those has been a handoff of
something we call a js ipfs lite to the
ipfs
core team i actually talked about ipfs
lite in a
prior meet up so that's now become js
dag service and
that's something we've given back to the
ipfs community i'm going to start to try
and promote that a little bit more in
the new year
and hope that we can get some
contributors over there as well
and then of course we have a lot of
speaking of community we have a lot of
interactions with
other teams including folks from fleek
from
memex from slate uh from the file coin
core team and
protocol labs and ceramic and a whole
bunch of other teams um
that we're really excited to continue to
uh interact with and
to do a bunch of integration so expect a
bunch of really tight integrations
between
groups like fleek and ceramic and slate
in the coming uh
months and quarters and please do check
out those projects because without those
teams
you know they help us to drive api
development they help us to
drive features and they help us to pick
what we ship
in order to ship all this stuff uh we've
also
had uh to do some hiring so we're very
excited that we've got two new members
that have joined our team pretty
recently in the towards the end of 2020
and so a textile team in addition to
growing our product space and
our tooling and all of our
community outreach we're also expanding
our team
locally and so please uh you know give
them a warm
welcome to um uh the new team members
and
hopefully you'll be interacting with
them a bit more in the new year
and that's pretty much it i don't want
to take up more than my fair share of
time
thank you very much please ping me
afterwards if you want to know any
specifics about the stuff that we did it
was really tough to pick
what i was going to put in this set of
slides and what to leave out
but i think that'll give you a quick
overview
and for anyone who's not familiar with
textile already
what's going on aren't you paying
attention and if you're
interested just check it out textile dot
io